Test, test, test, test, test, test.
There's one very nice book you may already familiar with that was written for the centenary of the British Library Association.
Have you come across this book?
What's it called now?
As it was read or something like that.
If you look at our Thunder Library Association in some catalogue, it was a very nice book that just, you know,
ranged over lots of nice anecdotal things from British librarianship.
They might have it for sale out here.
No, it's a Library Association publication.
I mean, Library Association is just around the corner from the British Museum.
And it's a book I would recommend to you.
Library Association.
You said it was as?
I don't remember which of that title.
But it's a centenary publication that they published.
I'll take a look for it.
I think it was done for National Library.
Excellent.
The name might come back to me while we're, you know, while we're speaking.
So what are you projecting your move over to St.
Patrick's?
Well, some of our, some of my colleagues there already.
Really?
So it's, can I do take milk and sugar?
We've first British Library staff moved into the building at the end of November, 1996.
And staff are steadily moving in now.
I go in July this year together with various other colleagues.
There was a big move in during September, October.
24th November we open the first reading room for the public.
And then we open reading room over a sequence of time going through to May 1999 after that.
And when do you think all of these materials will be over?
Again, that's being phased.
It'll be not long after May 1999.
The last reading rooms we're opening are the science reading rooms.
And our science collections are mainly in a different building, which is over about one mile to the east from here.
That's exciting.
That's tremendously exciting, yeah.
I mean, the building is going ahead really marvellously.
And we're just very pleased at how progress has lasted here in the last few months.
Hello, Mickey Most.
It's great.
We both have a book tie on this morning.
Mine is slightly less respectful than yours.
I'm curious, do you have something that you could express about how a national library serves as an expression of national culture, national heritage?
I am sure many people have been able to express it far better than I could impromptu in response to your request.
I share the views of many colleagues, including American colleagues, about national memories being national memories, the repository of the national thought of the language of our whole written history, being a source of information both about the past, for the past, about the future, for the future.
But I mean, there's lots of people that have thought about this good and hard and written wonderful things.
The mildest piece I sometimes quote when I'm giving talks from Barbara Tuchman, one of her books.
She's got a beautiful piece at the beginning about the importance of libraries.
She did most of her work, I think, in the New York Public Library, but she's one of those examples of
I did interview with Martin and Gregorian about a week and a half ago, and he said, you know, the Polaroid camera was invented there, basically from research out of the New York Public Library.
But Barbara Tuchman was one of those historians.
I'll check that out.
Oh, it's a wonderful quote.
I can't remember where she got it from.
I mean, she was quoting from somebody else, as I remember, but it's a very powerful quote.
And again, this book I mentioned in the library has got lots of little quotes of that kind.
One, we were up at Oxford yesterday.
We spent a great pleasure morning with Dr. Simmons, John Simmons at all, for the college.
He's done a marvelous work on Russian bibliography for many, many years, and it's actually kind of Dwyer in that field in the world.
And we are interested in Eastern European national libraries and what has happened there, particularly in the post-Soviet period, starting
with Sarajevo, you know, the horrific incident five years ago, four and a half years ago.
I mean, you talk about how important is a national library to a nation or a repository.
We had a party of Bosnian librarians here just a fortnight ago and talked with them about the horrific events that have happened to them.
Fortunately, there's one or two Bosnian libraries, including the one in Tuzla, that has not been damaged too much.
So that is the main repository now.
But our Yugoslav specialist that we have here is in very close contact with Bosnian.
And he's arranging various exhibitions of literature to go out to Bosnia.
He's looking at ways of providing copies of information that we have and have collected over the last two or three years to go back to Bosnia in order to meet the needs that they have
material that was lost in those appalling days of fighting.
And this is the Sarajevo Library or the other one?
The Sarajevo Library.
Yes, that's right.
Professor, Dr. Andres Riddlemeyer at Harvard is kind of spearheading this international effort to try and help in any way that they can.
I remember he the person that wrote a fantastic piece about the Sarajevo Library for an initial conference.
I believe so.
incredibly moving piece that I remember at the time, you know, being overwhelmed by because it was such a powerful piece.
But when you think about it, that is so profound and powerful.
A statement that when you, if we have these other great libraries, for instance, you have Ukrainian libraries in New York, you have the Library of Paris when there was no Poland, and that was the National Library of
To retain a sense of yourself and your culture and your history, you do need the books, though.
You have to have a repository.
Well, Panizzi, who is up there, who was the great librarian of Europe in the 19th century, he aspired that the British Museum Library, which it then was, should be the greatest French national library outside France, the greatest Italian national library outside Italy and France.
And for many of those countries, we do have almost the best collections in the world for those countries, particularly countries like Italy, where they had huge problems right up until post-war time for it to get libraries sorted out, and even now have big problems.
Many Italian scholars will come to the British libraries to do their research on Italian history, Italian culture.
because we've actually collected material systematically during the 19th century, which none of their lives were able to do.
This is precisely the kind of thing.
This is exciting for me.
So Eastern Europe, again, we've identified during the last few years the huge importance of continuing to develop Eastern European dimensions.
Just because there's been such turmoil in Eastern Europe,
Lots of collections have been thrown away, have been vandalized, been privatized, sold, given away, and the repository of much of that material is here in the British Library.
Is this the policy of the library?
It is, yes.
What is the impulse for it?
How would you articulate it?
It's a matter of priority, really, to ensure when we're choosing where to give our priority for our collection.
We obviously can't collect everything from everywhere.
I mean, it's just not affordable in this day and age.
And nor is it necessary, because there are many great libraries in other countries who are able to invest in very substantial collections.
So Bibliothèque Nationale de France has got a magnificent, not just a building, magnificent collection, tremendous collecting policy, very fast out of digitization policy.
I don't know if you're going there on this trip.
Yes, on this trip we are.
But I mean, that's a tremendous example of what can be done.
A tremendous example of a French government investment, or precisely a French presidential investment, which is another marvellous statement of the importance of livelihood.
There's a nice book I've got on the shelf here, which...
I don't know if you read French, but you might find it interesting to get hold of, which is looking at many of the national libraries all around the world.
But they call it the New Alexandrian Library.
Yeah, this is kind of a theme.
I'm told, I haven't checked it out yet, that they're planning to build a new Alexandrian library approximately on the presumed site.
Yeah, it's already, the foundations are there, you know, it's going up, it's all being planned.
I'm hoping that will be the epilogue of this new book that I'm writing, when you talk about a continuum.
Yeah.
And it will be a very modern library, as I understand it.
Indeed, yeah.
So we'll pick this up.
There's a chapter on Alexandria in there as well.
You may not get that easily in Britain, but you can order it through any French.
I'm just going to... Do you want me to photograph it with a title page?
That would be great.
Thank you, sir.
Quite a fine biography of Sir Anthony that was published about 20 years or so.
If I have it at home, I just have it.
Prince of Librarians, I think is the title of it.
So that would be... Does it articulate that?
Oh yes, it has plenty of that in there.
Good.
This is really what I'm trying, you know, part of what I'm trying to do is precisely the things that you... I mean, you could probably do this more easily than we can because we're right in the middle of all this and we don't have much time to get, you know, stand outside and think about what are we doing, what are we here for, where are we going to.
And you and others like yourself can actually do more of that, looking from outside and thinking about the future.
One thing Dr. Simmons said yesterday, that you add approximately a mile and a half of books per year.
More, two and a half, three miles.
And where do you put them?
Do you have depositors like Harvard does?
We've got a whole variety of different arrangements.
We've got, in London, 17 buildings at the moment, of which I should think at least 10 hold some of the collections.
And we've got a very large site in Yorkshire, 200 miles north of London, which holds a whole lot more.
But with St.
Pancras, books, we've already got a million books in St.
Pancras.
They're going at a rate of 10,000 a day.
And we've found that, no.
At the moment, there's not.
If there's a van here, this van is carrying books from the Bruce Museum building.
It's a van right over here.
This van right over here.
Right over here.
Ten summers in a day.
Coming from all over London, right?
Mainly coming from the Bruce Museum building to start with.
And once we've got that moving completed,
which, as I said, is going to go right through into the middle of Monday night.
We shall be down to four buildings in London that hold collections.
St.
Pankhurst will be one.
We've got two big stores that we'll be carrying on using for another few years.
One in
in the city and one in southeast London.
And then we have the newspaper library at Collindaire, which is about seven or eight miles north of St.
Pancras, and where we never envisaged being able to get all our newspapers into St.
Pancras.
And then we've got the big site at Boston Star in Yorkshire.
Is there any thought to digitizing the newspapers?
Yes, we've done some digitizing already.
We've done a lot more microfilming.
We've been doing that for many, many years.
Digitizing newspapers is much more expensive than microfilming newspapers.
And there's still slightly less certain long-term security and conservation prospects.
Also, more and more newspapers, modern ones, are, of course, available in digital form as CD-ROMs.
So we're not rushing ahead with a nuclear digitization program.
We're concentrating on making sure we've got particularly the older and brittle and deteriorating newspapers filmed for posterity.
This might be an appropriate point to move into the whole question of the future of books as we know them, and libraries as we know them.
I don't know if it's happening here in the UK,
In the United States, we have universities that are no longer opening up libraries.
They don't call them libraries.
They call them student research centers, information.
I don't even know what that means.
It's kind of depressing when you think that a library, which means so much more than just a place to park the books.
And I think it does involve a philosophical attitude.
I think that change is taking place here, though in general I'd say it's
not such a change as the addition of an extra form of library alongside the existing kind of library.
So there is still a need for places where people can sit and work and read.
And libraries in our universities are mainly there for people to go and sit in and work and read.
And traditionally the reading matter has been on paper.
With the electronic changes,
That's being supplemented by large amounts of directly accessible electronic information.
But often it's just little bits of information rather than whole text.
Because whole text are not particularly pleasant to read for long periods on screen.
There are still a lot of copyright issues with reading whole text.
And I think it will be quite a long time before we see
a major shift from conventional libraries to a completely new kind of library.
What we'll see is a new kind of library coming and being alongside conventional libraries.
So that conventional libraries will increasingly have masses of workstations in, and the workplaces are going to spread all around university campuses.
In many universities in America that's already happening, beginning to happen in Britain as well.
And that will provide
you know, a much richer source of information for people, but books aren't going to die.
In fact, journals have been published in greater and greater numbers.
Books have been published in greater and greater numbers.
More and more paper is being produced.
We bite all the prophecies from 10, 15 years ago of paping society.
Oh, it's just been the opposite of that.
Yeah, I think even the electronic information has often been printed out by people.
It's more convenient to carry it around somewhere or read it on the beach or in the garden, whereas a laptop's not so convenient in those places.
How about your own attitude about replacing books with scanned books, with zeros and ones?
I see a great place for both.
I simply, we did a calculation of what it would cost to digitize Hobart.
Oh, I'd love to know what that is.
I don't remember the precise thing, but it was somewhere in the range of five billion pounds, something like that.
You know, it was an amount which, you know, was not really a feasible amount to think about.
Our St.
Pancras building is costing 500 million pounds.
So it was something like 10 St.
Pancras buildings.
Wow.
That we were talking about.
And that kind of money is not going to be available readily.
Even though the costs are going down?
It's coming down, but there's a lot of basic labor costs in doing it.
We haven't yet gotten shoes, but we'll take a book and calmly go through turning the pages, doing the indexing, looking to see if the item is fragile.
getting it off the shelf, putting it back onto the shelf, etc.
You need to have people there.
Our experience of digitizing newspapers, we digitized a lot of our 18th century newspapers, while it was very labor intensive.
And there was a lot of dollars per page to copy some of that old material.
Do you have a policy on books that nobody has used for a certain amount of time?
You don't deaccession things, do you?
Not really.
I mean, we do it to a very limited extent, but mainly from our lending collections rather than our reference collections.
The British Library has, in Yorkshire, a very big document supply operation, which mainly lends items and provides photocopies services.
Some of that material is material that's duplicated, duplicate copies of the reference copies we have.
So those we do de-accession after a while because we've got reference copies left over.
For the material in the reference collection, the only de-accessioning we would do is more selectivity at the legal deposit point of entry.
Where we get reprints of books where we just don't think it's worth getting the next copy, then we won't take it in.
And sometimes where we've got reprints
if we're going through the collections, we're finding reprints from the past, then we do our car.
It's a waste of time to have that.
But you are maintaining an archival copy.
We are maintaining an archival copy.
Some of the older newspapers we are deaccessioning, particularly where there are good surrogate copies of them on microfilm or digitized versions, and particularly foreign ones.
So there's no point in our keeping
great runs of German or US newspapers if we've got microfilm versions of them and the items are readily available in those countries.
And even Scottish newspapers, we don't necessarily try to keep all paper copies of Scottish newspapers because the National Library of Scotland, Edinburgh, has got an excellent comprehensive collection of Scottish papers.
It's fitting to have two national libraries not far from each other, both spending a lot of money on preserving items.
The same thing.
The same item.
And I think that's a very important point we have to emphasize, is that you are the national library.
You are also the deposit, the official deposit.
Yes.
In fact, there are six legal deposit libraries in the British Isles, or British publications.
National Libraries of Wales, Scotland, and Britain, British Library, University Libraries of Oxford and Cambridge, and University Library of Dublin, Trinity College, Dublin, which is the sixth library.
So all those six libraries automatically can get copies of all British publications.
Well, that's probably a little excessive, wouldn't you think, if you're all getting copies of the same thing?
We don't necessarily take copies of everything.
You probably do.
We take copies of virtually everything.
the other libraries are more selective and wouldn't, for example, try and collect all British local newspapers because the cost of storing all British local newspapers is astronomical.
And so we do have collaborative arrangements among these legal deposit libraries where we ensure that we are not taking more copies than we need of material.
Have you ever heard of a phrase called phase deterioration?
Is that a brand new phrase?
Oh, it's new to me.
It's new to me, too.
They have heard of it at the Library of Congress.
Apparently it originated at Cornell, where I've been, which is the cutting edge of all the future stuff.
And apparently that's a phrase they use for books that may be getting fragile, that are fragile.
Somebody has made a decision that the content may not be particularly important.
So they made a determination that will keep it comfortable, give it a place to rest.
But we won't initiate any invasive procedures, so to speak.
It reminds me of a difficult decision being made in the British National Health Service.
The language is almost the same.
Obviously, we have to make priorities, too, in dealing with material.
We've estimated
that the amount of money that we would need to do a proper job in preserving our collections is somewhere near 100 million pounds.
I think it was 250 million pounds is what we thought we would need.
And we've done that on the basis of actually surveying the collections and calculating the cost of doing and looking at the material that we can't deal with.
We actually spend somewhere around
five or six million pounds a year on conservation.
And so we've got about 50 years worth of conservation that we cannot afford to do.
Quite large proportions of that are for material that if we can't do it for 50 years, it will not be doable.
The material will have disintegrated.
That's precisely what that phrase applies to.
And so we're well aware of the concept even if we don't use the language.
And all the time we're having to make very difficult decisions about how do we prioritize our spending on the material that's concerned.
Again, fortunately we have, first with St Pancras, a building which is going to allow us to have far better atmospheric conditions than we've ever had before for collections.
So the rate of deterioration will slow down greatly.
In this building, we have the most awful problems of extremes of heat and cold, dampness, leaks, pollution.
I mean, you know... How old is building recycling?
Most of it's about 140 years old.
Some of it goes back 240 years.
Not designed for keeping books in conditions.
Parts of the building that I walk around quite often, where the heat
is horrific.
It's the kind of heat that you wouldn't dream of keeping books in your own home in.
And yet, there is great national connections being kept in these conditions.
Quite awful.
So that's a factor that will help us a great deal in St.
Pancras.
But still, material is already in such a power state that even the St.
Pancras conditions will not help.
And then we have to think about cooperation with other libraries.
We have very good international and European corporations
on preservation so that we have registers that show what books are being preserved in different countries and we're not duplicating the work on filming or digitizing earlier materials in different countries.
And then we've got the programs of microfilming and a digitizer which we try to prioritize so that those things that otherwise disintegrate we catch before they do disintegrate.
Are you prioritizing
in terms of condition or by content?
It's a mixture, obviously.
There are some items where clearly the content is extremely important, particularly some of the older items, items that are believed to be unique.
Obviously, we've got to deal with them.
And we may give them priority over items whose condition is worse, but where we suspect there will probably be other copies available.
It's a very difficult decision to make sometimes.
And our newspaper library is one of the most difficult areas, because you can imagine that newsprint in the past has often been very poor quality, simply doesn't last very long.
And already we've got thousands of volumes of newspapers
where we can't really let people look at them, because you just have to kind of open the thing up.
And you know what it's like with old newspapers.
Bits of paper kind of crumble in your hands.
Well, a few weeks ago, Gene Ashton from Columbia, I think, is telling me that kind of an ironic comment to this, but for a period of years, the New York Times actually did an archival copy of the Daily Paper on rag paper.
And so this would be like an archival preservation copy.
But nobody ever uses it because it's so difficult to handle.
So what they find that they're using is either going back to the fragile one, right in the microfilm, and the New York Times stop doing it.
So it's kind of an interesting paradoxical situation.
Did they ever do any archival copies of the major... Not that I'm aware of.
Again, with having the CD-ROM versions now, that's making a big difference.
Also, of course, it affects the whole
the comfort of what a newspaper is.
You know, you're searching it in a different way.
The storage becomes much simpler.
But you also lose some things in that newspapers come out of different editions each day, and CD-ROM is going to have to choose one particular edition.
We try and keep, not for all papers, but for many of the major pages, several editions all the time.
So there's lots of quite difficult issues that come up in that area.
If I were to give you an example, let's say an institution, an American institution, has started a procedure where they're selecting older books from their collections.
It's no longer a copyright problem, so they can scan them.
And they're scanning these books, making it a digital copy.
And then they're disposing of the original book.
So all that's remaining is these zeros and ones.
There's been a lot of trouble, hasn't there, in the California department.
One library in particular is doing that.
One library.
In this case, I'm telling you whether you're in the public side.
I mean, we would not do that.
I mean, also there are some areas where, particularly for the foreign newspapers, where we have already in the past, for many years, disposed of material that we have filmed.
And by disposal, I mean offering it to other libraries, particularly to other national libraries, then offering it to other organisations, and as a last resort, actually pulping it.
There's no demand for it.
But that's the only category where we've done anything like that.
I'm talking about books.
Yeah, we're books.
We go against the grain.
And I wonder why would you go against it?
Why would you not do it?
Even if the book was in dreadful condition, it's badly foxed.
We're talking about books when the acidic content of the paper is not good.
It costs a lot of money to restore it.
Maybe it should be called.
I don't know.
Maybe we will.
Maybe we will one day do that.
Obviously, we, at the moment,
I think going back to your medical analogy, we try and give them a very good, comfortable home to live out their last days and extend those lives as long as possible.
And eventually the point may well come, where for some of these older books, we have to make that political decision that it's not worth keeping anymore.
We've got an effective surrogate.
We will dispose of it.
For British material,
So far, we felt it would just be wrong to do that.
We're not actually prevented by law from doing it if we decide ultimately that the book is no longer of any value to the collection.
But perhaps there's some time longer until we're that much more certain about surrogates, about the durability of the surrogates,
we prefer to keep those paper pockets.
I'm not taking a formal position, by the way.
I'm certainly not really as hysterical as Nicholson Baker in it.
I think it was very therapeutic that he did what he did and wrote what he did, but, you know, who knows?
I mean, people have very big problems.
If I was given the choice of...
a magnificent collection, which I had no room to store, I had to make room for it, and the only option was to destroy some material, which was of little value, and where we had, I was pretty confident in the surrogate, then in those situations I might say, right, that's what we're going to have to do.
We've not been put into that difficult position yet, but I can imagine other libraries that could find themselves in very difficult conditions from the point of view of priorities.
Well, I have an institution, Cornell.
And their number two librarian told me that they are under a mandate from their trustees.
Now, this is a university library, so it is slightly different priority.
They do support the curriculum, I guess, et cetera.
But they have 6.8 million volumes now.
And apparently, they have a mandate to have that down to 6 million by the year 2000.
So I guess that says to me we have to get rid of 800,000 books and also factor in what you're going to require.
I guess what you're saying is we've picked a number, 6 million, and that's what it's going to be.
We had a program about 15 years ago in Britain called Self-Renewing Library that applied to university libraries.
And the idea was that universities would take a ceiling on the extended air collection.
And for each new book they got in, one book would be removed.
And that was applied in some universities.
In general, it was felt not to be an achievable objective.
It's actually becoming a little bit easier now because of the electronic information becoming available and because there is more cooperation now among universities and just the budgetary reasons.
Universities cannot afford to buy as much as they used to be able to buy.
That might be something that could be applied in the university library.
Public libraries in Britain, of course, have long applied that in that they are completely limited by space.
They cannot get extra space, and they're part of a cooperative network that does ensure that last copies are retained and are accessible.
But national libraries can't really indulge, I don't think, in that kind of activity.
The university library can only do what you're saying because there are national libraries there that ultimately are the last resort back-up.
And it's called the last copy, right?
The last copy.
The last copy, yes.
Who knows where the last copy is?
Well, we do know for quite a lot of Cadiz material where last copies are.
Public libraries actually mark last copy.
Do they?
On the books.
Most of our public libraries... Meaning the last copy in the... Last copy, usually in a region, a geographical region, that's also a public library administrative area.
And that over there, last copy,
And they would normally not get rid of that last copy.
See, we don't do that, I don't think.
I don't think it happens in the U.S.
or not.
Yeah, it doesn't.
Because one of the things we are looking at, that I'm looking at, and Connie is looking at, is selectively books are being gave sessions.
And then you go to OCLC and you can actually do a scan and see who has the book.
And very often you're finding the books, like that was one of the things that Nicholson Bay
find out in the dark.
They were being thrown away.
Guess what?
Maybe only half a dozen of them.
Well, sadly, our system does not work as well as it should do.
We had another book that was written, I can't remember the author and title, I'm afraid, that was about this kind of similar problem in Britain of books disappearing from public libraries.
Public libraries used to have a policy of offering books which they no longer wanted
to the National Library, and we would then identify any that we didn't already hold, and we would add ones that we didn't hold to the National Library stock, and we would offer the native redistribution.
And that worked quite well in the 1950s, 60s, into the 70s for a while.
Then since the 1980s, there's been pressures on public libraries to earn money.
And one way of earning money is to have book sales.
And so almost every public library in Britain now has book sales where they are offering books that are no longer needed for sale to the public.
Some libraries, I hope quite a high proportion of them, will still be exercising that last copy responsibility.
But except for the others,
who are saying, well, I'm sorry, you know, it's a nice idea, but you can't do it.
And so some of those last copies will be being sold.
They find themselves eventually into secondhand bookshops.
And someone did a survey of X library items in secondhand bookshops.
Is this a published survey?
Yes.
Can I write you a book?
Maybe somebody could direct me to that.
I just remember there being a debate about this.
But it indicated what we were going to say.
And they did this survey and they found that a lot of books that had been in public libraries and weren't accessible anymore had found their way into the book trade.
My own copy of Dividend's Bibliomania, the second plan, which is 1830s and 40s, something like that, was the accession by the conquered public libraries.
which I got from a second-hand bookstore.
This book may well have been handled by Emerson.
It was there, and they deaccessioned it.
I mean, one of the embarrassments in our own past is that the British Museum Library used to deaccession material in the early 19th century.
And it's deaccessioned things which nowadays are priceless.
Because someone said, oh, we've already got a copy of this.
You don't need a second copy.
And this went back to some
really important work.
Didn't Bodley have to go and try and get their own first folio back?
I think they probably did, yeah.
So there's all sorts of, you know, very difficult kind of skeletons in the cupboard there.
Well, even Peaks, I'm sorry.
That's one of the things that has led many of the big research libraries in Britain to be very wary about repeating these mistakes from the past.
Well, Samuel Peaks went up from a first folio, I think, to a third.
You know, it was
more accurate, I guess, because he didn't have any concept of the value of a book, I guess.
And that phrase, self-renewing libraries, was that an official phrase?
That was actually an official phrase.
A report was produced by a committee called the Atkinson Committee.
The Atkinson Committee.
I love that.
About 1977, 78, somewhere around there.
It was for the university grant committee, I think it was produced, which was the body that used to run British universities.
So if we add X numbers, we have to read X numbers.
That's right.
That's great.
There was much controversy, as you can imagine, about this in the UK.
Do you have any questions?
Yeah.
We did cover the... So tell me about the new facility.
This is designed clearly for the future.
For hundreds of years.
And not just as a, I'm sorry?
Hundreds of years.
It's going to last, yeah.
And it's, you know, tremendously inspiring, but also strong and sturdy and lasting building.
Built of very fine material by craftsmen.
Some say it's the last, what will be the last great craftsman building in Britain.
We're going to see it this afternoon, so I'm quite sure.
I think it's changing very fast now because the final building works are happening inside.
And so week after week, new vistas are opened up to us inside that are quite staggering.
I mean, we're all really very excited by it.
And we think readers are going to be completely overwhelmed once they get in there.
Could you give me some examples of what really impressed you in terms of the fashion trip?
Well, I think what's impressed me most of all is the feeling in the humanities reading room area, which you may not be able to go to this afternoon.
It's what we call a completion phase, the second part of the building, which is just finally being finished now.
And we've got three reading rooms with two step reading rooms above.
Fantastic, beautiful, high ceilings.
Beautiful desks, wood, marble around.
And you can just be there.
Many people compare it to a modern cathedral in terms of its feel.
The light has been very cleverly planned in the whole building.
The architect has been very subtle.
in finding ways of bringing natural light in without it actually shining directly onto books and desks and people.
So it feels incredibly light, even though you can't just look around actually see, you know, windows and so on.
Come in, Alex.
I think Alex is the person you're going to hear.
It's Alex Bichastner.
How do you do?
Nick Bichastner, my wife's funny.
Nice to meet you.
Just sit down a moment, Alex, and I'll just let you know how our discussion has been done.
And I'd say I think you've given us a good... We've just been talking very generally around some of the themes of what's happening in libraries in the UK and what's happening in the British Library.
I've just been saying a bit about the fantastic inspiration of what this is, Pancras.
Nicholas and Connie are going there this afternoon and we'll see something on it.
Alice is in charge of our special collection.
which means all the manuscripts, music, the maps, our found collections, what else, Alice?
The Oriental and India.
So she can add to what I've been saying, looking at some of those special areas.
There are many of the points you've been making, particularly important points.
We've been talking about the issues of how far we can conserve everything, how far digitization can provide answers.
What do we do when things have got such a bad condition that they're not going to last?
Do we give them euthanasia or do we keep them going for as long as we possibly can in the hope that the magic cure will come?
I look forward to your book when it comes out in due course.
As you can see, it's a general but I hope also specific.
Yes.
On the eve of a new millennium, that's the point.
We talked about Alexandria a bit and going around in a full circle.
And we just begin to dip our toes into the electronic libraries and so on.
But you can do that one a bit further with Alex.
Alex is the whole spectrum, really, right from the great, fantastic, traditional, historic collection that we have here, right through on the sound side, Alex is responsible for as well, where we're at the other extreme in terms of how do you handle
You don't have here, in the UK, I don't think, and this is just a general observation, you don't have a kind of debate raging here, I don't think, as we have in the United States, over the literary canon, you know, believe it or not, Shakespeare, people are actually asking
Is Shakespeare relevant?
You know, do we have to teach Shakespeare in English for it?
It's preposterous, you know, that question should be.
Alex was involved in helping to plan our national curriculum for education.
Oh, I would love to.
You can talk a bit more to Alex about some of these complex issues.
The national curriculum.
I just read in today's paper what I thought was rather amusing revelation about an Australian book.
Have you seen in today's paper?
No, I haven't.
It was an Australian book by...
an Australian Aboriginal woman that won lots of prize in Australia.
It's about this woman's upbringing and her own background.
And unfortunately, it's actually a white middle-aged man that wrote this book.
Which one were you at the time?
I saw it in the Telegraph.
But I'm sure it will feature in all of them.
I mean, the Australians tend to go to these great hoaxes and so on.
But it just reminds me a bit about some of these problems of what is politically correct literature and information.
Yes, I think that's that purpose before.
Anyway, the book I mentioned about what the planet goes in, I've got it at home.
I will email you for details.
Can I give you my card?
Let me do that.
I think I've already got your email address.
I'll give you my card anyway.
I can send it to you.
It does have the email address on it.
Thank you so much.
Can you think of any other...